That's a lot of people.
in this world.
Those who are healthy and not sick.
Those who are men. and not women.
Those who are wise. not stupid.
Beautiful and not ugly.
And then there are them
which is everything at once.
Baldur and Arni
were both healthy. beautiful and wise.
They were sons of the great chief.
Once home from a cruise. he gave
them an axe with a handle of mother-of-pearl -
- from the seas
on the back of the world.
But one summer day the village came under
attack and everyone had to take cover.
For little Baldur the axe was
too heavy. and it cost him time.
Baldur lost
his left arm that day -
- and his reality
was changed forever and ever.
The feeling of being different
and the outcast consumed his mind -
- and suddenly didn't know
Baldur no longer knew who he was.
He didn't feel well.
wise or beautiful anymore.
He had become less valuable.
than the others.
The great chief. who had sworn
that everyone was of equal worth -
- couldn't just watch while
his youngest son perished.
He decided that everyone
boys. men. old and newborn -
- during his greatness
also had to give his left arm.
He knew that if everyone is gone in
pieces. none have broken.
And when Baldur's reality
could not be changed -
- then the reality around him had to
change instead.
THE LAST VIKING
...robbers forced their way in -
- to the value management center
Loomis in Glostrup.
The robbers are described as brutal.
and very targeted.
Several witnesses have seen two cars
in the area at the time of the crime.
What's going on. Anchor?
Pack a travel bag for me. Freja.
And find the passport. Now!
Hold up now.
Stop it! Help me!
- Manfred...
- We're having a barbecue tonight.
- We're going to have big chops.
- I'll have to go away.
- You have to do something for me.
- Where are you going?
- Everything will be fine. Freja is here.
- I want you to be here too.
I'll be back. okay?
You must eat this key...
Sometimes you have to let me
Finish talking first.
When it comes out. swallow.
it again. until everything is safe.
Do you hear what I'm saying?
At the train station. locker number 23.
You have the key now.
In that closet there is a bag. Grave
it down in the forest up by mother's house -
- at the old oak table
where we celebrated your birthday.
Can you do that for me?
You're the only one I can trust.
- Can I bury it somewhere else?
- Anchor. you have to come.
Anchor.
MONEY TRANSPORT ROBBERY
Who are you. Anchor?
I am Anchor.
I am Anker Andersen.
Are you the model prisoner. who
deserves to be released on parole -
- or Anchor
who beat a fellow inmate 31 times -
- because he spilled coffee
about your sudoku?
Or Anchor robbing a bank-
transportation and aiding and abetting murder?
I am many things.
but I am not a murderer.
I have never killed anyone.
I have had a lot of anger in me.
against many people.
To my family. To my father...
...because he left us.
Against my brother.
But I have been ordered to
my temperament and myself.
What do you have to say about 41.2 million
never been found?
I have... I have reviewed
this process with you many times.
If I knew where the money was.
I would have told you that a long time ago.
Listen. I'm drug-free.
and I haven't had a drink in 11 years.
I'm not violent anymore. I know.
Not sure what else I can do.
I can only say that I am different.
than I was at that time.
WELCOME HOME FROM PRISON ANCHOR
- Won't you open the door?
- No. I'll wait a little longer.
Can you...
- Hello. my brother.
- Hey.
He has bought 60
of your favorite rolls.
He hasn't slept in a week.
Do you think that's enough rolls?
Or what. Manfred?
- I forgot. His name is John now.
- Why is that?
Because he doesn't want to be called Manfred.
Everyone calls him John.
Those flowers were picked by John.
and dried and glued them up like that.
That's great. Why the fuck
Don't you want to be called Manfred anymore?
- What is it?
- Here. John...
Stop it there.
You can't just come home.
and believe that everything is the same.
Everything has gotten worse since mom died.
He has missed you so much.
and now he thinks you're leaving again.
Can't you say sorry?
and say you're going to stay now?
I'm thinking of taking a trip.
Up to mom's house or something.
That's a good idea. Then you can
stay up there for a few days.
Those who have bought the house
Renting to Airbnb.
But just remember to call him John. okay?
John?
Whoops. you have to apologize for that.
It became very dramatic.
What the hell are you doing? We don't have any more
to do with each other. Flemming.
I must have all your money.
Anchor. otherwise things will go wrong.
All my money?
You've got your half.
I have used them up. and I have
got me into a lot of debt -
- and I have promised people
that you would help me.
No. now I want to hit you.
- How much do you owe?
- I must have all 20 million.
But you have until Monday.
What's with that door frame?
It's fucking dangerous.
You know what?
I'll fix it. I'll bring it.
some tools on Monday.
Do you want to eat another one?
You are welcome to do so.
Would you like to eat another one?
- Where did you get the dog from?
- That's our dog now. Anker.
If you stay here.
Would you like that?
Do you want to go swimming together?
with me and the dog. Anker?
Yes. now we have a new dog.
Give me the dog.
Bente is standing down.
- Give it to me. Bente is standing downstairs.
- Which dog?
- That dog. damn it!
- Then it's hidden there again.
So it would like to live here. then.
I'll give it some water.
No! That's not her dog.
There is another dog.
And then right now. when it loves me
and Anker saw a lot.
- Come here. Bente is calling the police.
- We shouldn't have any police here.
- Give her the dog now. Manfred!
- Call him John. for God's sake!
- Then it could be the same!
- He takes people's dogs.
Everyone in the hallway is sick of him.
You have to call him John.
Last week I forgot about it. and then
he stabbed himself with a meat fork.
John... John.
If I stand
at the old oak table -
- where in relation to the table
Have you buried the bag?
Stop it. Manfred.
- I don't know who you're talking to.
- Stop it now. I don't want that.
- Why do you want to be called John?
- Because I'm John.
- But why are you John?
- But why are you Anker?
I don't give a damn what you think.
I am John.
John Lennon.
John Lennon?
Now you can fucking clap me again!
Excuse me. but what the hell is going on?
You don't even look like him.
You don't even have the right glasses.
I drive them and save up for them.
You have to accept this. or else...
Otherwise you'll stab yourself.
in the head with a fondue skewer?
I can slowly kill myself.
with a spear like that. yes.
I had big plans for it.
But we never get fondue.
Hold up now.
Manfred. now you tell me where it is...
- Is he okay?
- Who?
My brother. Manfred Andersen.
Well. Andersen? It's just...
superficial scratches.
Then I can take him home. right?
We have to keep him. since...
is it a suicide attempt -
- but you drop a 500-rupee note
in my pocket. then you can take him.
- Do you want me to bribe you?
- Jaggu. someone got angry.
- But what the hell are you thinking about?
- It was a joke. damn it.
Your brother is down at 8C.
Are you okay?
Can you sit in a car?
I understand that.
You've missed me.
And you are confused and hurt by
that I haven't been there.
Yes... But now I'm here.
Come on.
I want you to ride up with me.
and shows where that bag is.
Then we'll do something together afterwards.
Isn't that right. Manfred?
Are you okay?
Can I hold it?
Yes. now we're away from that stupid woman.
Dissociative
personality disorder.
When the rest of us are one person -
- then Manfred switches between
several different personalities -
- and now he's locked up in
an alter ego like John Lennon.
I have to take him with me.
I need to talk to him.
You have missed him.
but Manfred is going to stay here.
Why that?
He hasn't done anything to anyone.
He has attempted suicide and stolen.
nine dogs since October last year.
Manfred knows who he is.
This is something he plays.
It is usually
a year-long process -
- involving a combination
of therapy and medicine.
And some patients remain
his alter ego for the rest of his life.
We know that dissociative
personality disorder -
- occurs due to traumatic events
experiences earlier in life.
It could be 10. 20. 30 years ago.
Manfred!
What the hell are you doing?
He's killing us.
That axe will be hanging here.
And take off your helmet. We have to go to school.
- No. I'm going on a cruise.
- No. you shouldn't.
Stop behaving so abnormally.
You're too big. Everyone's laughing at you.
You are not a Viking.
Vikings don't exist.
I exist.
Anchor. are you in there?
YACHT FOR SALE
There we have the chairman of
the anti-corruption department.
Eight Fernet Branca. Lilian. Thank you.
Lothar Nielsen from psychiatry.
Do you remember me?
- Are you going sailing with your brother?
- No. he came to a closed ward.
That might be very good.
- Has he received a diagnosis?
- Dissociative personality disorder...
Dissociative
personality disorder.
Did you ask for eight Fernet Branca?
to yourself?
I always order eight.
Otherwise it looks so violent.
Dissociative personality disorder
is a real crappy diagnosis.
It's madness.
He thinks he's John Lennon.
I had a Michael Laudrup
in custody.
He also alternated between
Jesus and John Wayne.
It was completely impossible for the kitchen
to know what they were going to serve.
There's a guy sitting outside on Amager
who thinks he's Ringo Starr.
Then we just need Paul and George.
then we can get the band together.
Why is things going so wrong for him now?
He should be happy to see me.
He has been able to handle
the subpersonality until now -
- because there has been no conflict
between self-image and the environment.
I don't understand a damn thing about that.
Let's say I walk around
and will be called Napoleon.
Then my surroundings will
consider me an idiot.
It will affect
my self-image is negative.
But if we build a copy of
Versailles. hires 200 servants -
- give me an army
and teach me French -
- then it's not so strange
that I am Napoleon -
- and therefore my self-image will
remain intact.
As long as the surroundings play along.
then everything is fine.
The whole neighborhood calls him John.
He fucking writes autographs.
I can't just pretend then
He is John Lennon.
- Wouldn't that be completely wrong?
- Where have you been for the last 20 years?
When IKEA opened. it was
46 different item numbers.
Today there are 12.000 products.
Everyone has become unique.
Everyone has the right to
its own unique reality.
Then you can probably fix it too.
calling your brother John Lennon.
Good thing you're up.
You have to look here.
- Please. a shirt for you.
- How long have I been sleeping here?
I drove past the patient registry for
to see if Ringo is still sitting there.
Ok. One Anton Wulf Espersen -
- was admitted in July 1996
at the psychiatric center on Amager -
- and thinks he's the drummer
Ringo Starr fra The Beatles.
It was your own idea.
I checked all departments.
What was my own idea?
Gathering The Beatles to surround
Manfred with his own reality.
But Paul McCartney and George Harrison
was tricky. There is no one in Denmark.
I was really about to give up -
- but look here.
Who is sitting in Sweden?
May I introduce?
Hamdan Falk Sjöberg -
- admitted to ward 53
North Stockholm Psychiatry.
And guess who Hamdans
subpersonality is!
Paul McCartney. right?
Sir Paul McCartney I think so.
that Hamdan prefers you to say.
He is more than that. Hamdan exchanges
between more than 40 sub-personalities.
Iron Man. Gustav Mahler.
Schopenhauer. Davy Crockett -
- Heinrich Himmler
and guitarist George Harrison. What?
He is both Paul McCartney
and George Harrison?
Yes. not at the same time. then.
Isn't that amazing?
We have two members of
The Beatles in one. And Iron Man.
- You'd definitely want to have a beer with him.
- Why are you telling me that?
We gather the band around Manfred and do
his reality into reality.
Can't you remember?
Napoleon.
When we picked up Manfred. you said
we had to find a recording studio.
- Have we picked up Manfred?
- How drunk were you?
You hit a hospital guard.
repeatedly in the face.
And we need to talk about that too.
- You have big problems with rage.
- Where is Manfred now?
I gave him 60 mg of Diazepam.
- When does he wake up?
- He'll be up and running in five or six hours.
We drive to Amager after Ringo.
to Sweden after Paul George -
- and then down to your mother's house
and build a rehearsal room.
- I am conducting a medical study.
- What have I said about mother's house?
It sounds like the perfect place.
to awaken memories.
But we have to use IKEA.
Go your way.
Run away with you.
We're ditching IKEA.
and then we just drive together.
- Stay away from me now!
- Now wait a minute.
It's a huge overreaction.
Hey.
We're here. We're at Mom's house.
We'll have to sleep here -
- and then you show me where
The bag is tomorrow morning. Okay?
Good.
Gosh. hello. Welcome.
My name is Margaret.
- Hello. Anchor.
- John.
You're going to live over there.
I'll show you.
No. that's not necessary.
We have lived here since we were little.
So fun. But then you'll probably want to go in.
and see the house and eat with us?
Manfred is not so happy about
large companies.
Manfred? Han sa jo at
han het John.
Anchor. now I'm really hungry.
Nice.
And then we got some
Great museums up here.
Yes... No. I just think that
We go for a walk in the woods...
- and dig a little for the mark
for fishing trips and things like that.
- In the.
- Would you like a glass of blackcurrant juice?
How is it possible that you are married.
when he's so ugly and you're so pretty?
Is that why you don't have any?
child? Because he's so ugly?
What kind of question is that?
Are you a complete idiot?
She should apologize for that.
She called me that.
all day.
No. you have to say sorry.
to me and Werner.
I haven't said anything that is a lie.
Then I can only say you are ugly.
Then you're not pretty anymore.
Just look how ugly she is.
- You guys need to get out of here now! Get out of here!
- Relax. He has a diagnosis.
Ever since he was little. Manfred has
fought. everyone has been after him.
Oh. sorry. We didn't know.
that you had a diagnosis.
- That's what you have to say.
- You gave him one in the face first.
- Yes. she goes boxing.
- It was a small blow.
- Well. now I would like some juice.
- Yes. Excuse me.
What about you. Anker? Do you like jazz?
Maybe you should briefly explain what
what happened to your face.
- You don't need to.
- How did you become ugly?
- It's totally okay.
- But the short version. then?
It was a completely ordinary Friday.
like everyone else.
- We were supposed to have ten guests.
- Do you have ten guests every Friday?
- We don't have that.
- Everything was ready at home.
The Montepulciano was open.
and the roast was in the oven.
That was at that time
We still ate meat.
So I was just going to pick up
two peppers for a salad.
- History is constantly changing.
- What did I say wrong now?
It was peppers stuffed with minced meat.
We tried an Afghan recipe.
I had just lost
my entire foundation -
- because I had finally decided
to give up my modeling career.
But Werner discovered that he
had only bought eight peppers.
So I was on my way down for
to buy two extra peppers.
Why should you both buy in and
cook? Does she do nothing?
Now it's time to buy two peppers.
not a daunting task.
But it cost me.
my whole face.
But I gave up.
my career and my life -
- so you can relax
to design your collection.
What kind of collection?
It was a unique collection.
which I worked a lot with at the time.
Werner has been designing clothes for 40 years.
but never produced anything.
Now he has given up and is trying
to write a children's book instead -
- but it's not going so well either.
That's not entirely correct.
- I kept telling.
- Can't you finish telling me?
Exactly. thank you. Excuse me.
I was about to park.
Then I was still smoking...
- so I stick the sig in my mouth.
grabs the shopping bag -
- and the moment I open
the door. then the airbag comes. Bang!
Factory defect. Welcome to hell!
Why did you bring it with you?
a shopping list for two peppers?
We were missing a few other little things.
They are not that important.
- So you got the cigarette burn in your face?
- A cigarette glow is 1400 degrees.
An airbag comes in over 300 km
per hour. so the ember was smeared out -
- and I lost 40% of my skin
in the facial region.
- Thanks for the food. but I think we...
- There were good things about it too.
They paid compensation because I
also lost the ability to design.
But why couldn't you design?
When designing fashion clothes. John.
then it is absolutely crucial -
- that you see the world through
other people's eyes.
But if you have any doubts about
who you are. and I did...
I was existentially confused.
and my design career fell apart.
What career? You don't have
designed as much as a sock.
You have worked for eight years at a
A children's book you'll never finish.
It's so disgusting when you say things like that.
disgusting things in front of guests.
- I'm just telling the truth.
- What could I say about the truth?
She was a hand model in a Kahlúa-
advertising in 1987. And that was it!
Yes. yes. That's life.
But think of the waste.
And that was just for two peppers.
And the other on the trading note.
What wasn't so important?
- Yes.
- Thank you.
- Yes. thank you for a great evening.
Look here. We found these things
inside the wall when we rebuilt.
Are you the one who cut it out?
those figures?
No. Manfred had a period
where he was crazy about Vikings.
Are you okay?
Yes. I'm just tired.
- Sleep well.
- Ok.
When are we going fishing together?
Tomorrow. Anchor?
We go out into the forest first.
and digs for marks.
Where we used to celebrate our birthdays
ours. Do you remember that?
No. But I've kept all of them.
my birthdays in Liverpool.
I would like to go fishing. I
Just don't bother walking through the woods.
And I don't dare join.
if we are going to look for a bag.
No. we're looking for a field.
You don't understand.
what it's like to be me.
People really like me.
- Because you're John?
- Yes.
Because I am John.
You had one job to do. that brother
Yours didn't become a laughing stock at school.
I didn't know that.
he had it with him.
It was just for fun.
I think Freja is funny.
when she gets teased every day?
Is it fun?
that he carves runes inside the house?
That we have to attend parent-teacher meetings. and
Are all the other parents laughing at us?
Manfred is very sick. Anker.
and he needs help.
And you haven't helped him today.
Do you have it?
Manfred didn't choose himself.
to be a Viking.
Manfred. get up.
- Shouldn't we go down to the sea?
- We have to find land first.
- I don't like being here.
- Don't say that over and over again.
I don't want to be here.
I really don't like being here.
Take it easy. okay?
Quiet and peaceful.
My brother and I always kept
our birthdays over at that table.
We don't need to fish. Can't we?
just go back to the house?
- Or drive home to Freja?
- So. so... calm down.
Yes... I haven't either.
I want to be here. okay?
But we can't leave.
before we have the bag. Manfred.
- John. I'm sorry.
- Bag. bag. bag!
You're just talking about bags!
Stop it now. Give it up.
You don't mean that!
Have you marked the location?
with a Viking rune?
How stupid are you?
Imagine if someone came by here?
Damn. what a fool.
Just go. Just go!
I don't need you anymore. Go!
- What the hell is that?
- It's Balder.
Balder?
Our dog.
Don't you remember him?
How the hell do you remember that.
if you are John?
What?
It's something you play.
You're lying. Come on!
- Let go! I don't want to be here!
- Help me now. damn it!
I never want to go out here again!
Let go. or I'll kill myself.
with flames!
Okay. I'll let go. I'll let go.
but then you stay here -
- and then we talk
Quietly together. Okay?
Do you promise?
Then I'll let go.
You fucking idiot. man! Fuck!
Hey.
Do you and Manfred
Fighting at school today?
There were some of the big ones
who beat him.
Was he wearing his Viking clothes again?
And his helmet?
Mrs. Sejersen told
that there were two Vikings.
It was just for
He shouldn't feel alone.
I just put on a helmet.
Dad. they beat him every day.
And it's only gotten worse now
when he doesn't have his axe with him.
I trusted you. You stood here.
and swore you would help!
Excuse me.
Manfred suffers from
a very terrible disease -
- and it gets worse if you join in
into his sick reality!
Dad. it was a mistake.
It won't happen again.
I promise.
It's too late.
So now you two will have to learn -
- that reality
can hurt a lot.
So now you go down to the forester.
and you give Balder to him -
- and waiting for him to kill him.
Kill him?
Today Balder will be killed because
You have acted as you have done.
- Balder hasn't done anything.
- Stop crying. you little sissy.
A Viking doesn't feel bad.
themselves or others.
A Viking teacher
to live with one's fate.
And today you two will learn
that every action -
- you do things in life.
has a consequence.
Now you go down to the guard. So
You take the dead Balder home.
Then we give him
a very nice funeral.
- What's going on?
- Your friend has assembled the whole band.
And the man with the beard says
He can teach me how to play the guitar.
Why didn't you say so?
It's a fabulous project.
You have our full support.
because we are huge Beatles fans.
Huge!
I'm drawing a little more power from you.
Let me know if there is anything you are missing.
- What the hell are you doing?
- No. we won't take it now.
Now everyone just wants to start practicing. Here
we have Paul George all the way from Sweden.
And Ringo. who is mute. something they have
chose not to write in his journal.
It's John's assistant. Anker...
I've told some of you.
but I want you to understand -
- that I'm only with you if you're not
had something to do with the Holocaust.
Otherwise I'm out!
And we're talking about the real thing.
The Holocaust. That in Germany.
Yes... But no one does.
have here. Isn't that right?
You don't look like John Lennon at all.
But you don't look like that either.
some of all those who are you.
The secret to playing guitar
is to think like a beaver.
Are beavers good at playing guitar?
Nobody is better. I shot
my first beaver when I was three.
- Get in the crazy bus and drive again.
- Try to see the potential here. then!
It is a valid
psychiatric experiment...
- We're not forming a band with idiots!
- That's not for you to decide.
- Now listen here...
- Take it easy. Relax!
Anchor. I'm going to die!
Excuse me.
I shouldn't have said that.
But I have
advanced prostate cancer.
And this is a last chance for
to achieve something within that subject -
- after all. I have dedicated...
my whole life.
I'm sorry to hear that.
but you can't be here.
You are making a mistake. It is your best
chance to get Manfred back.
But I'm throwing in the towel.
I can't take it anymore.
Lothar.
How long would it take?
before he became himself?
Then you would see progress soon.
Once they have practiced a couple of numbers.
- Are you sure about that?
- Yes. You won't regret it.
- It's something else.
- And?
Manfred remembered
where our dog was buried.
He may be in contact with
the subconscious of one's true self.
But... I didn't know.
that we had a dog.
Or. I completely forgot about it.
Isn't it strange to forget?
The brain forgets indifferent things.
It's completely normal.
What if it isn't?
Indifferent things? But important?
Yes. that's even more normal.
But it's a long conversation.
Focus on the band
and to get Manfred back.
You have to see Paul George play.
He is absolutely amazing.
- Aren't you coming out?
- No. I don't.
- That's really rude.
- That's crazy! Listen!
- Aren't they supposed to play the same song?
- It is important not to interfere.
They should probably play the same.
- The ugly one says I'm bad.
- Everyone is equally good.
You must not lie.
I know I'm not that good.
You have to play worse.
so it's not my fault.
I don't see anyone to blame.
I just see a lot of talent.
Yes. yes. exactly.
We are all the best.
Everything was Anker's idea. but he
Not saying he's better than anyone.
If you want to be successful with
An idea must be promoted in a group.
An idea is not just an idea.
You have to have the logistics in order -
- have the crew to carry it out.
and then you have to have a plan.
So a bit like the Holocaust?
- Then I'm out!
- IKEA would be a better example.
But let's take it again.
Try again. Come on.
Stop. stop!
That doesn't sound good.
We have to play together. Okay?
- E major. Follow me.
- What is he doing now?
- Will he become McCartney?
- Yes. now he's changing his identity.
It is wonderful to witness.
Now he goes from George to Paul.
Hamdan also believes
that he is Björn from ABBA.
He also believes that he is
Heinrich Himmler -
- which gave us problems on the ferry.
He'll be George again soon.
Or Paul.
It's just too annoying.
We shouldn't listen to anything like that.
No. don't!
When IKEA opened its first store
in Denmark in 1969 -
- many things were not in place.
That was before barcodes. The idea of
Selling inventory that way was new.
But they had faith in things. The
the same faith we all have here today.
The band is reunited.
One notices that -
- you are among the best. and that
They will also notice down in the city.
Because this morning I paid
the registration fee -
- for 250 kr more
the talent competition down at the inn.
That's not impressive.
but we must crawl before we can walk.
We start small and work our way up.
slowly up. Completely like IKEA.
- Cheers!
- Cheers.
- Should we play for the audience?
- No. just for a lot of beavers.
240 extremely musical beavers
who claps along to all the numbers.
- But isn't that dangerous?
- Because.
If you get stage fright. then
Imagine the audience is beavers.
- Can't you stop with that?
- No. Björn says I should practice.
But I would like to ask Lothar
if you can join in and play bass.
I'm better at the mosquito song.
Incredible. one can be both dumb
and snore like that.
Deaf people also dream with sound.
And color blind.
I dream in German.
It's not because of the Holocaust.
I never dream of that.
because I wasn't there.
I curse.
my Aryan origins.
When I was young.
I dyed my hair black.
And wore dark contact lenses.
You know what? Now I think you should
Sleep. You're tired. Paul George.
There's no Paul George here.
It's just Björn. Accept it.
Now we sleep. and then we find out
who we are tomorrow. right?
That's great. Thank you.
You really have it under control.
So we don't need to play it anymore.
- Aren't they supposed to play the Beatles?
- It's coming. Werner.
But now I think we should try.
to draw the breath down into the belly.
And breathe out through your nose. Like that.
Maybe we should try playing
"With a Little Help from My Friends".
What Werner had suggested.
I don't understand what it is.
is about. It is missing a layer.
- What does he say?
- That it's missing a layer.
You just sang about a banana.
He can't talk to me.
because then I'm out!
Now let's take it easy.
Now let's be kind to each other.
John. can't you
explain to us a little about -
- hva "With a Little Help
from My Friends" handler om.
- Could I answer that?
- What are all people afraid of?
What do we fear the most?
- Vikings.
- Holocaust.
Yes... Yes. maybe. But even more
Afraid of? I can give you a hint.
IKEA employees have something
which is called a "code 99".
It's when a child has gone missing -
- because the worst
that can happen to a child is -
- that they think they are alone.
Hamdan?
I think the song is about children.
who is alone at IKEA.
I also think it's about
some children living at IKEA.
That's exactly it.
it is about.
"With a Little Help from My Friends"
It's about never being alone.
That you always have some people
who you trust. who will be there.
Do you feel that way about anyone?
Someone you trust. but who you
Maybe I'm afraid I'll leave you?
Yes... Shouldn't we try?
to play something else now?
Oops... Sorry. That was really...
dramatic. That wasn't the intention.
- Do you know who I am?
- In the...
People call me Flinke Flemming.
Do you know where Anker is?
Get up.
Let's go up and wait for him.
We'll figure everything out. Come on.
Everyone would like to be someone else.
- The young will be older and vice versa.
- What does it help to play ABBA?
- We've been listening to jazz for 20 years now.
- So now jazz is also completely wrong?
When you hear it that way.
in silence with red wine and analyses.
It says idiot
all over our face.
I've gotten more out of listening to Paul
George sings. but at a very long time.
His name is Björn. He takes his own life.
if you call him that again.
You can't just choose
his own name.
You deserve it.
or received from their parents.
I can't call myself
for kong Werner.
- It must reflect reality.
- Let others come. Werner.
If everything is worth the same.
is nothing worth anything.
Jazz and the Beatles are better than ABBA.
Healthy is better than sick.
There are objective truths
which cannot be discussed.
You have to have a shared reality.
That's absolutely crazy. Margrethe.
Now you can't recognize yourself.
Just because you heard a song?
Margrethe just wants to be accepted
of the outside world as who she is.
When you look like me.
No one sees you for who you are.
Everyone thinks you're stupid.
when you are pretty.
Only when I got together with Werner.
People started taking me seriously.
When they could see that I openly didn't
went for looks or money -
- but sought an intellect
I could see myself in the mirror.
I understand you.
I have been in many relationships where
They didn't take me for my qualities.
They just wanted a trophy girlfriend
with the perfect Nordic look.
My blond hair and my blue eyes
has always been a curse.
What are you digging for?
Mark.
- With a metal detector?
- Yes. that...
I just like to dig.
and see what I find.
Okay. But then we're down to zero.
normal people on the register.
I think it's absolutely amazing to see
How to take care of your brother.
So. all that stuff about the band
and bring him back here and...
- Okay. I think I'll dig further.
- Okay. I won't disturb you.
- I need four kilometers.
- What do you say?
- Yes. Okay.
He doesn't answer. No. sorry!
Then we just take a finger.
- Can't you help it?
- Take it easy and breathe deeply.
Can't you do anything else?
Hit me a little more?
Could you be so kind?
to stop crying?
Excuse me. Is there anything wrong?
What can I do? Anything.
Can you put your hair up again?
So you look like a little workboy?
Of course I can. Of course.
- Then I have to go to the toilet.
- Yes. We are adults.
If you try to escape.
Then I will kill you.
I do.
Who do you want to call?
Phew. that was stupid of you.
No! You're dead!
It is completely impossible to find
a new story for a children's book.
I have a lot of good grades.
but it's just like...
There is something missing that makes
the universe becomes unique.
There are over 1900 children's books
which has a duck as the main character.
- Why aren't you sewing something?
- What should I sew?
Sew something for those out there. They've been wearing hats.
wearing the same clothes since they arrived.
41.7 MILLION NOK NEVER FOUND
I like Björn. He says
I can become very good at guitar.
Are you tired?
If you are sorry.
You are welcome to sleep in my bed.
Are you aware of
How much have I done for you?
Could you be so kind?
to help me here?
Hey.
- That's not your axe.
- No. maybe it's theirs.
It was here when we took over the house.
Do you want it?
It should be inside the workshop.
it must not be taken down.
It should hang there.
Oh yes. I can see that.
Like that.
Are you the one who made it?
those signs that are all over the place?
Those aren't signs. Those are runes.
There are also many others
of their old Viking things here.
Just look here.
I'm freezing.
I don't want to be here.
Should I make hot cocoa?
What is Anchor?
looking for out in the woods?
He told me that there are a lot
money. so you can say that.
It's strange that you're driving and asking
when I don't know.
- Why can't Anker find them?
- Because he can't remember anything.
Not even
How to set a rune.
Putting a rune? What does it mean?
When you have a secret. you put
one a rune. So one can find the prey.
And Anker wants you to
to put a rune somewhere nearby?
I would like to see how
Do it. You can show me.
Do you think I'm crazy?
I'm not crazy.
It's Anker who's crazy.
He can't remember anything.
He's the one who's crazy.
Margrethe. do you have time to come up?
and look at something I've sewn?
- I'm in the middle of something. Werner.
- But come on. Margrethe. Now!
Excuse me.
I'll probably sew it up.
I'm unsure about the colors.
It is colored beaver.
Can we keep our clothes?
I'll look into it.
It's probably something tax-related.
- Good morning. Anchor.
- Good morning. John.
Have you seen what Werner has sewn?
And everyone has insisted on
that I should have a set too.
I'm pushing it in the direction of the Beatles.
McCartney invented Sergeant Pepper -
- because they were tired of being
themselves. A whole new identity.
You probably think it's silly.
but it will work.
I think it's absolutely brilliant.
We are on the right track.
- Whatever you do. just keep going.
- Okay. but then I'll do it.
- Good morning.
I know you're looking for the money.
John has told me everything.
Relax. I'm not calling.
to the police or something.
Why not?
- Because I want the same thing as you.
- Ok.
- And what is it that I want?
- I think you want to leave.
But you can't find the money.
I can get John to tell us.
where they are.
Us?
- Should we stop playing games?
- What kind of game?
Give it to me. I've seen how
You've been looking at me since you arrived.
And I understand that you understand
me as unattainable. but...
...Werner and I actually don't
been happy together for many years.
- You can't tell that from me.
- It's just a facade.
So I'll stay with you.
when you travel.
Have you told Margrethe?
about the money?
No. I've only told you about runes.
You just got a lot of money.
Now you tell me
Where is the rest of the money?
Now comes Freya.
Freya!
- He hasn't followed you?
- I don't think so.
I took the train. I didn't know
What should I do?
- Are you okay? Is Manfred okay?
- You can't just come here.
Do you think I would like to be here?
I hate being here!
Then I don't understand.
why you came.
You are really
The world's biggest asshole.
You come. and then everything falls into place
completely crazy again.
Can't find your money?
Don't you think I knew what you were doing?
Should I come here? I know you.
We have been waiting for you for so long. and
Now you are leaving and leaving everything behind.
You promised your mother to take care of Manfred.
You swore!
Of course I travel.
You should do that too.
- You've wasted your life on him.
- If you travel. you are like a father.
Shut up! Don't touch me like that!
Sometimes I think I see Dad
in places where there are many people.
Then I dream about
that he says sorry.
I just don't understand how to
can leave a family like that.
I know that
It's insane. but...
I still believe he will come and
give a speech if I'm getting married.
You and Mom have been talking about him for 40 years.
Go ahead.
The man found another family.
Because he couldn't handle Manfred.
And no one does that.
Dad was a piece of shit. Freja. You should
Just be glad he left.
Father was also other things. It is
no people who are just one thing.
- Shouldn't John help?
- Come on. Paul George.
Stop calling me.
Paul George! John. are you in?
Come and help.
Stop feeling sorry for yourself now.
Hey. hey. hey!
Pay attention to the epaulette.
- You're not even in the band.
- No one understands what you're saying.
- Swedish idiot.
- Am I a Swedish idiot?
- What are you doing?
- At least I'm not an alcoholic.
Then the clothes are gone. Now!
The gift shop is now closing.
- Take off your clothes!
- Save the power of the instruments.
Do you really think
that you can fool someone?
You know very well that
you don't have blue eyes or blond hair.
You are not Bjorn.
and you never will be. Fucking clown!
No! Not the guitar!
- Paul!
- I'm out!
- George?
- Werner?
- Bear?
- I'm out. It's over!
Okay. he's going for a little walk.
and then we drive.
Not here either. I'm going crazy.
I can't take it anymore.
You have to make him understand.
that we are dying from this here.
Can't we just leave without that money?
It doesn't matter now.
- Because you're going to jail for this.
- For what then?
For letting those lunatics go
out of the hospital.
- Why do you say that?
- They know it's you.
I have no idea what the penalty is.
to kidnap four patients.
But it was Lothar.
I was just helping get Manfred out.
- And there were three patients.
- There are four in the newspapers.
4 PATIENTS MISSING
IN DENMARK AND SWEDEN
Paul George has beaten Werner and
left the band. so the two of us have to join.
- I need you. Now.
- Over 25 people have purchased tickets.
We have massive problems in the band.
and a huge concert in three hours.
If I had known it was like this
Manager... Don't worry. I have a plan!
Shut up now!
Now it ends... Kjeld.
- Why do you call him Kjeld?
- Because his name is Kjeld.
- He is a psychiatric patient.
- Isn't everyone?
Exactly. Margaret.
I've been saying that all along.
Lothar Kjeld Gerner Nielsen.
psychiatric patient.
Why are you angry?
that my name is Kjeld?
- And you're not dying. are you?
- Shut up and sit still.
- I might be dying.
- Now you hold the fuck up!
I've been sewing for 14 hours straight!
I'm running on seven hours of sleep.
And you know what?
Right now I just have to have
and a glass of Burgundy. Okay?
No! Anchor!
Anchor...
- Anchor!
- Did you see that?
He hit him.
He hit him with a frying pan.
Now he dies.
Now he dies too. Everyone dies.
- No one is dying.
- Yes. he dies.
- And then I get sent away.
- Give it to me.
Why don't you go out?
and are you practicing for the concert now?
I swear. you touch that guitar
again. I'll crush your head.
And yes. you're right. We all die.
together. and it's your fault.
No. Anker. don't worry.
That's not true.
Look at me.
Look at Freya.
- Look at her. It's your fault.
- Hold up now.
It's your fault we're in this mess.
It's your fault that Dad left.
- It's all your fault.
- Stop it now. damn it!
No. John. Wait. John!
No. don't!
- Jump in.
- In the.
- Have you been crying?
- Go. I'll take the bus.
- It's not embarrassing. I've cried.
- I've cried a lot more.
- We can try to say sorry.
- No. I'm going to Germany.
- But what if we could get the band together?
- I'm going to Germany!
Holocaust! I'll stop it.
and you shall not hinder me.
I could never have dreamed of that.
But maybe I can drive with you?
Lothar. answer me honestly.
I don't have blond hair.
and aren't my eyes blue?
I'm going crazy. I don't know.
if what I see is true.
Damn... I see...
- I don't see blue eyes and blond hair.
- Oh no!
I see a dark person
with an impressive beard growth.
But it doesn't matter.
what I see. Or others.
What counts is what you see.
I see the most talented
the member of the band.
And then I see an incredibly handsome man.
who is in deep balance with himself.
And I see a very good colleague
who could go solo.
Yes.
- That's good. Jump in.
- Ok.
Can I help you with something?
At.
Anchor!
Anchor?
Flemming. take it easy.
I need the money. Anker.
They're not yours. I don't have them.
Or. I've tried calling.
I'll have them soon.
I'll cut off a finger from your brother.
then you have ten seconds to think.
- And then I cut another one and another one.
- Flemming. don't do it.
You will get money.
I just have to find them.
I would like to give you some money.
but I don't know where they are!
Okay. I just got it.
never experienced before.
- Normally people scream so exaggeratedly.
- Don't do anything to him anymore.
- Only he knows where they are.
- Don't say anything. I can handle it.
- Do you know where the money is. Manfred?
- John. His name is John.
- Do you know where the money is. John?
- They're down by the sea.
But I don't show it.
if you do anything to my brother.
Now you did something to my brother.
so now I won't show it.
Now I'll never find the money.
- Why am I going out here?
- Get in the car. You drive.
- Drive.
- I'm not allowed to drive a car.
I can only drive with automatic transmission.
And I just lost a finger.
- I don't want to be without Anker.
- Then I'll shoot you in the throat.
- I know. Where do you want to be taken?
- For the money.
We can't. The money is Anker's.
I can't tell anyone.
Now that hand hurts a little.
I'm hungry too.
Can we have some food?
And I'm a little cold.
Yes. Then we'll drive.
Then drive... Now I'm driving.
How do you get it to run?
It's really difficult.
I can't!
I have to... Now I'm driving.
It is very illegal.
what you have done here.
- A small animal crosses the road.
- Shut up now.
- And breathe normally.
- But I can't do that.
- You don't need to drive faster.
- Anker is looking after me. Let's leave it alone.
- You mustn't do anything to him.
- Don't drive so fast.
- Slow down. you idiot.
- Promise you won't kill Anker.
Slow down.
Slow down. Manfred!
You have very big mental problems.
problems in your family. Do you know that?
Yes.
Anchor!
Anchor.
Manfred!
John!
My girl. Daddy loves you.
See you on Sunday. And the food is
ready-made. you just have to heat it.
Nei. nei. nei. nei!
- Something terrible has happened.
- Something about mother and Freja?
They killed him. He's dead.
- Who?
- Join us.
Call for an ambulance.
Just wait until I get up.
Manfred. Then I'll crush you.
You won't be able to walk. You
You won't be able to move.
Help me! Help dad!
Look away. Manfred.
Anchor. what are you doing? Anchor?
John Lennon was hit by four
shots when he arrived at his home.
He was rushed to the hospital.
where he was declared dead.
The perpetrator. Mark David
Chapman. is a fanatical fan...
We never talk about this.
You must swear on
that you don't say anything to anyone.
You stop being a Viking. okay?
You can never be that again.
I was out picking mushrooms with my mother.
but I didn't say anything.
Mother stood right above him.
Are you sorry?
that I showed you?
I think I knew it in a way.
I thought it was something
I had dreamed.
Freja often does that too.
- Doesn't Freya know?
- In the.
But she dreams of him.
She is so sad about it.
I think she wants to know.
You're welcome to tell her.
Should I tell her?
for both of us?
Do you dare? I will.
I would really appreciate it if you did.
I know you are going your way.
You're embarrassed by me.
I'm not always so good.
to be together with.
There is no one
which is okay all the time.
You have to be exactly what you want.
- What happened?
- Yes. I found her this morning.
She fell by accident.
on one of the stones.
We are home now.
Come on. come on. Come on. come on.
- Can I do something?
- No. She needs to take it easy.
I think I'll make some soup.
She has lost a lot of teeth.
Okay. so let's just take it.
Have I lied about who I am?
Yes. maybe. My father was a trustee.
at IKEA in Ballerup. not Taastrup.
The Taastrup branch only opened after
that they closed the Ballerup branch.
So yes. my father was the boss -
- in the only IKEA store
that was ever closed.
You are aware of what such things are.
do with a small family.
Does that make me a bad person?
that I am a dreamer -
- that I don't always hang myself
in fantasy and reality -
- and that I'm just trying
to recreate the world's best band -
- Well. then you're welcome.
Call me sick.
And if you want to hit me again. then...
Björn and I bought a new frying pan.
Can you forgive me. Anker? What?
Are you angry with me?
I forgive. I'm not angry.
Thank you. Anchor.
- Okay. Now it's them.
- This one is not good. Smell.
- I can't smell anything.
- Shut up now.
What an afternoon. huh?
For et show!
Does he have to bring the axe on stage?
It is dangerous.
It's way too big. How did you
allowed to bring it in?
- You can bring axes again.
- Not on stage!
The Flying Beavers!
Then you can't play with us.
If you would like to have it with you. then
bring it. But you don't need it.
There are many different
people in this world.
And under the great chieftain was
everyone was happy. and everyone was equal.
Everyone was equally happy.
Of course there were bumps in the road.
and battles that had to be fought.
But the great chief was always thinking about
that everyone is worth the same.
And he knew that when everyone is missing
a foot. no one is missing a foot.
As the years went by. everyone just became
even happier than they already were.
Even though a people who lack
limbs have poor balance -
- and shouldn't throw axes after
each other. they didn't hold back.
Because if everyone has poor balance.
so no one has bad balance.
As the day wore on
where the unthinkable happened -
- the great chief didn't think for long
before he made his decision.
Many were afraid.
but no one wanted to say it out loud.
And the great chieftain laid. as
the last one. his head on the block.
And in the seconds before
the axe hit his neck -
- he looked out over his people. and a
Blessed peace spread in his heart.
For all the maladjusted and
outcasts. those who were different -
- the weak. the sick. the rich. the poor.
the pretty and the ugly -
- the men and the women. and all those
who didn't know who they were...
...he had never seen them
more calm and balanced -
- and finally everyone was
worth just as much.
Werner de König
THE LAST VIKING
Norwegian lyrics: Nina Maria Eidheim
Scandinavian Text Service